---
title: "Climbing Gunung Ledang (Mount Ophir)"
date: 2025-06-27
tags:
  - "travel"
  - "malaysia"
  - "mountain"
layout: "layouts/post.njk"
---
## The Trail {#ophir-trail}
We took the Lagenda trail, which appears to be the more conventional, well-maintained route.
I would recommend this to anyone going up for the first time. The paths were clear, clean,
and checkpoints were well-spaced.

The
### 

## Climbing Experience
I would consider myself an intermediate hiker at this point.

### Duration
The estimated time for going up is 5-6 hours, and
coming down 4-5 hours. I took 5.5 hours to get up,
and about 3 hours coming down. Our group started at 8,
and reached the summit around 1.30pm. 

The latest can stay up there is until 2.30pm. You have to reach the base
by 7pm, or be subject to overtime fees at RM50 per hour per group (essentially, per guide).

Our last guy only got down at 8.30pm after dark. Thankfully, he had a torchlight and the guide was with him
and another patient member of our group.

---
## Itinerary {#ophir-itinerary}

### Getting there

We chose to drive to the location in a 7-seater Perodua Alza.

### Tangkak
While the national park was nearer to Sagil, we decided to stay in Tangkak.
The food there was great, especially after the hike.

We wanted to try [beef noodles](https://maps.app.goo.gl/YkbVTK69zkdfzVMJ8) which was the local specialty,
but it was closed so we went next door for [Bak Kut Teh](https://maps.app.goo.gl/EkBwvs1vH6VCYDsw7).
In the same stretch of buildings, there's also a place to buy [traditional snacks](https://maps.app.goo.gl/kg3uYbk28mCtB63G8).

We didn't spend much time in town, as we wanted to get back to JB before the Sunday evening highway jam.
---
## Food {#ophir-food}

## Costs {#ophir-costs}

Prices listed in the currency paid. 
Prices per pax were divided over 7 people.

- Trail Guide: RM200 for Non-Malaysian, RM165 for Malaysian
- Accommodations: RM510 3D2N (~RM72 per pax)
- Car Rental: S$154 2D (~S$22 per pax)
    - Fuel: RM85, About ~RM2-3/L, roughly 40L for the whole ride
- Food: Depends, but we spent roughly RM100/pax
- Some small fees for parking/tolls where applicable.

### Total
At roughly 3.32 MYR to 1 SGD or 4.28 MYR to 1 USD,
per-pax costs were about 150 SGD or 116 USD as of this date.
